.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH TWOLAME 1 "March 24, 2001"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
twolame \- MPEG-1 layer 2 audio encoder
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B twolame
.RI [ options ] " <infile> " [outfile.mp2]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B twolame
is a very fast (6x realtime on a 550mhz celeron) MPEG-1 layer 2
audio encoder with a command-line syntax nearly identical to that of the
.B lame
MPEG-1 layer 3 audio encoder. Because of patent issues surrounding the
layer 3 encoder, the ability of most mpeg audio players to play layer 2
files, and the similarity in command-line syntax,
.B twolame
makes a very good
drop-in replacement for 
.B lame
and other layer 3 encoders under most
circumstances.
q
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h,
Show summary of options.

.TP
.B \-s sfrq,
input sample rate in kHz   (default is 44.1)

.TP
.B \-a
downmix from stereo to mono

.TP
.B \-x
force byte-swapping of input

.TP
.B \-m mode,
channel mode : s/d/j/m   (default is j)

.TP
.B \-p psy,
psychoacoustic model 1/2 (default is 1)

.TP
.B \-b br,
total bitrate in kbps    (default is 192)

.TP
.B \-v lev,
vbr mode

-5	constant bitrate file at the lowest allowable
 0	raises average bitrate by about 5%
 5	raises average bitrate by about 20%
 10	raises average bitrate by about 50%
 15	raises average bitrate by about 75%

.TP
.B \-f
fast mode (turns off psy model)

.TP
.B \-q num,
quick mode. only calculate psy model every num frames

.TP
.B \-d emp,
de-emphasis n/5/c (default is n)

.TP
.B \-c
mark as copyright

.TP
.B \-o
mark as original

.TP
.B \-e
add error protection

.TP
.B -r
force padding bit/frame off

.SH LIMITATIONS

The input file must have 16 bits per sample.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lame (1),
.BR oggenc (1).

.SH AUTHOR
.B twolame
was written by Mike Cheng <mikecheng@cryogen.com>. 
This manual page was written by Brian Ristuccia <brianr@osiris.978.org>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system but may be used  by  others  under
the same license as twolame itself.
